---
title: "GraphkmerDTA-integrating local sequence patterns and topological information for drug-target binding affinity prediction and applications in multi-target anti-Alzheimer’s drug discovery"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/GraphkmerDTA
date: 10 January 2025
venue: 'Molecular Diversity'
paperurl: 'https://rdcu.be/d5U1t'
citation: 'Zhang, Z., Luo, G., Ma, Y. et al. GraphkmerDTA: integrating local sequence patterns and topological information for drug-target binding affinity prediction and applications in multi-target anti-Alzheimer’s drug discovery. Mol Divers (2025). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11030-024-11065-7'
---

Identifying drug-target binding affinity (DTA) plays a critical role in early-stage drug discovery. Despite the availability of various existing methods, there are still two limitations. Firstly, sequence-based methods often extract features from fixed length protein sequences, requiring truncation or padding, which can result in information loss or the introduction of unwanted noise. Secondly, structure-based methods prioritize extracting topological information but struggle to effectively capture sequence features. To address these challenges, we propose a novel deep learning model named GraphkmerDTA, which integrates Kmer features with structural topology. Specifically, GraphkmerDTA utilizes graph neural networks to extract topological features from both molecules and proteins, while fully connected networks learn local sequence patterns from the Kmer features of proteins. Experimental results indicate that GraphkmerDTA outperforms existing methods on benchmark datasets. Furthermore, a case study on lung cancer demonstrates the effectiveness of GraphkmerDTA, as it successfully identifies seven known EGFR inhibitors from a screening library of over two thousand compounds. To further assess the practical utility of GraphkmerDTA, we integrated it with network pharmacology to investigate the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of Lonicera japonica flower in treating Alzheimer’s disease. Through this interdisciplinary approach, three potential compounds were identified and subsequently validated through molecular docking studies. In conclusion, we present not only a novel AI model for the DTA task but also demonstrate its practical application in drug discovery by integrating modern AI approaches with traditional drug discovery methodologies.
